# Stats for Starters
In today's era, data is the new oil. The amount of data being consumed and amount of data being generated has seen an exponential growth in this smart phone era. Thanks to this boom of data sources, there has been a significant increase in machine learning research and its applications. But wherever you see data, you always finds statistics. We can think of statistics as a way of representing data. Or a more better definiton would be that statisitics is a way of representing meaningful data. Infact, statistics is one of those few subjects that has a great practical significance in our daily lives. Statistics along with Linear Algebra are one the few most important subjects in the field of applied sciences. I remember my friend, Amit(he is the reason I love maths and engineering) and me used to hate statistics. We used to make up some dumb shit joke about Covariance and Regression. I will try to explain some concepts in the simplest manner possible so that you people don't end up hating the subject like we did.

In the world of statistics, you will frequently come across the words population and sample size. Let's say that we are headed out for the supermarket to get some apples. In the grocery section, we see a bunch of apples. We pick a basket of apples and go to the cashier section. Now in statistic terminology, the whole bunch of apples in the supermarket is called the *population* and the basket of apples that we picked is called *sample space*. I will now bring in two more terms here. If you use statistical tools to represent the *population* ,then it is called *Descriptive Statistics*. Similarly, if you use statistical tools to represent the *sample space*, then we call it as *Inferential Statistics*. You can make a note that in case of *Inferential Statistics* we try to deduce the charactertic property of the *population space*. It may not be entirely correct since we are exposed to only a part of population.
